# Artist Statement

For this project I decided to take the film 'Need for Speed' and turn one of its core ideas into a game which is presented in regards to my game; "The Need for the Speed." The general core idea of this miniature game was to create my own version of a scene in the film, 'Need for Speed'. The original idea was to allow this game to be played with two people, as the actual opening scene in the film. The idea was to have both players race each other down the street avoiding on coming traffic, while also listening to their GPS (ResponsiveVoice) giving them guidance. The original idea behind ResponsiveVoice was to guide the players on how to play, when to turn, who to avoid and how to race (it would turn into a corporative two player game). But inevitably, this didn't work out, so I scratched the two person game and made it a one person game where you are placed on a busy highway and your goal is to avoid the on coming traffic, while listening to your ever annoying GPS (ResponsiveVoice) giving you advice. I wanted to randomize messages from ResponsiveVoice, but you had to pay for that feature. There is also this weird texture flickering, and I don't know what the cause of that is. In the beginning I wanted to use ml5 to move follow the movement of my finger to control the movement of the player, but I found it to be super buggy with my webcam for some reason, so I had to go off the old and reliable arrow keys for movement. Not only that, but I also tried implementing annyang for speech recognition for the movement, and again, slow with the commands made the movement buggy. In all, am I happy where this project went? In essence. Could I have done more to improve on my idea? Of course. But at the end of the day, my implementations have exceeded that of last semester. So, theoretically a win.
